+++
title = "A consistent adjacency spectral embedding for stochastic blockmodel graphs"
date = 2012-10-01 
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Daniel L. Sussman", "Minh Tang", "Donniell E. Fishkind", "Carey E. Priebe"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Journal of the American Statistical Association"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "We present a method to estimate block membership of nodes in a random graph generated by a stochastic blockmodel. We use an embedding procedure motivated by the random dot product graph model, a particular example of the latent position model. The embedding associates each node with a vector; these vectors are clustered via minimization of a square error criterion. We prove that this method is consistent for assigning nodes to blocks, as only a negligible number of nodes will be mis-assigned. We prove consistency of the method for directed and undirected graphs. The consistent block assignment makes possible consistent parameter estimation for a stochastic blockmodel. We extend the result in the setting where the number of blocks grows slowly with the number of nodes. Our method is also computationally feasible even for very large graphs. We compare our method to Laplacian spectral clustering through analysis of simulated data and a graph derived from Wikipedia documents."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://doi.org/10.1080/01621459.2012.699795"
url_preprint = "http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2228"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
